# Inventory Mobile Application - Android Studio

## _Q: Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?_ ##

### A: The designed application is a basic inventory management program. Users are meant to login and then can do basic features such as: adding and storing information about a new item, updating an existing item's information, and deleting an item from the list. This application is meant to help those who need a detailed list of products or items they want to keep track of in a seamless and quickly accessible way.  

## _Q: What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?_ ##

### A: After a security login (for keeping important details on the person/organizations stock secure) of username and password, the user is taken to the inventory list screen, which will prominetly show the name of an item, with a smaller text below it of the quantity number they have on hand / in storage. When tapping on the "add item" button at the bottom, the screen changes to have fields where the user can input the: name, description, price, and quantity of the item they want to add to the inventory list. Upon saving, the screen automatically reverts back to the inventory list screen, and will promplty display the new item the user added.

### Should the user tap on an item in the screen, they will be taken to a new screen which will have more details like the description and price displayed; from here the user can then select a field and be able to type in corrections if need be. They can even choose to delete the item from the inventory list. Once the user is done veiwing the details or updating them, they simply press save and it returns to the inventory screen. Should the user want, by tapping the bell icon they can go to the SMS permissions screen where they'll read what the feature does and can opt-in or out of receiving SMS notifications when an items inventory reaches zero. These screens and features are directly related to the necessary tasks and opeartions that benefit users who need to quickly add, update details, or delete items for seamless inventory tracking & management. Additionally, the use of the SMS feature allows for users to stay updated on items they might need to restock, and other important situations when an items quantity reaches zero.

## _Q: How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?_ ##

### A: The development of this application was similar to an agile methodology. After gathering the requirements and gainging a good understanding of the problem the software was meant to solve, it made the designing of the UI and the development of the functional code much more efficient and smooth. In quick sprints I first designed the UI and all the screens within Android Studio, ensuring that the overall layout was focused on the necessary user needs. After completing that and receiving approval, development of the code was done one screen at a time, and was constantly tested. Ensuring that the features I coded in the Java functions worked immediately made sure that the process wasn't hindered by unecessary and frustrating testing done much later once all the code was implemented. With this strategy, the application was able to run without error and met all the user criteria in a modern and simple layout that would exceed expecations for user experience while using the app. This project helped instill this mindset that I'll take into future projects, which will likely follow the similar quick, timesaving and productive results.

## _Q: How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?_ ##

### A: Ensuring that after each new feature was written via the Java code, making sure the function worked as intended made sure that similar reusable portions could make the future features be developed much quicker. For example, thoroughly testing the SQLite database to store the login information (the first feature the users interact with when opening the application) laid the foundation to allow me to transfer that similar code & design to the inventory (the main feature of the app). It allowed me to quickly test and properly implement code that allowed for appropriate storage of the necessary data, which is essential in an inventory application like this. Immediate testing not only makes sure that a specific feature works as intended, but can be great to help streamline future implemented features and other code; without the aggravating and massive time expenditure if it's held off until all the code is written. 

## _Q: Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?_ ##

### A: A major challenge was attempting to implement the SMS feature that allowed users to stay informed when an item's quantity reached zero. This was a new feature that I haven't had any experience in implementing, and didn't have any direction on how to overcome this hurdle. Thankfully, with enough research the Android Developers had open source documentation and examples that were able to help guide me through the proper coding design and proper performance of the feature in the app. This helped me understand how powerful the open source resources software developers have at their disposal. Something I'll be sure to consider if I have other coding/designing challenges in future projects.

## _Q: In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?_ ##

### A: The database (storing the appropriate information of the user's login info, and inventory information) was a big success for the application. This data storage and manipulation feature is the core of the app, without it the major features like a user easily adding, updating, or deleting from the list wouldn't be possible. Thanks to learning and correctly applying the SQLite to the app made this possible; and greatly cut down on unecessary time like testing different data structures or coding excessive CRUD operations. Implementing SQLite was new to me, but my ability to learn and executing it to the application was done within just a few hours. This, I believe, shows not only how well documented these open source items are, while showcasing my skills and abilities to quickly pick up and apply new best industry practices to software development. The things that I've learned in this project was very insightful and helped grow my skillset, something I look forward to applying to future design & development experiences.
